README.md, before:

# Wrapbox

Wrapbox runs Ruby method or shell command in a container (ECS, docker).

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'wrapbox'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install wrapbox

## Usage

Write config.yml

```yaml
default:
  cluster: wrapbox
  runner: ecs
  region: ap-northeast-1
  container_definitions:
    - image: joker1007/wrapbox
      cpu: 512
      memory: 1024
      essential: true

docker:
  runner: docker
  keep_container: true
  container_definitions:
    - image: joker1007/wrapbox
      cpu: 512
      memory: 1024

ecs2:
  cluster: wrapbox
  runner: ecs
  region: ap-northeast-1
  # Use already existing task definition
  task_definition:
    task_definition_name: foo_task:1
    main_container_name: container_name_where_command_is_executed
```

#### run by CLI

```sh
$ wrapbox ecs run_cmd -f config.yml \
  -e "FOO=bar,HOGE=fuga" \
  "bundle exec rspec spec/models" \
  "bundle exec rspec spec/controllers" \
```

#### run by ruby

Run `rake wrapbox:run` with `CLASS_NAME_ENV` and `METHOD_NAME_ENV` and `METHOD_ARGS_ENV`

```ruby
Wrapbox.configure do |c|
  c.load_yaml(File.expand_path("../config.yml", __FILE__))
end

# runs TestJob#perform("arg1", ["arg2", "arg3"]) in ECS container via `rake wrapbox:run`
Wrapbox.run("TestJob", :perform, ["arg1", ["arg2", "arg3"]], environments: [{name: "RAILS_ENV", value: "development"}]) # use default config
# runs TestJob#perform in local docker container (Use docker cli)
Wrapbox.run("TestJob", :perform, ["arg1", ["arg2", "arg3"]], config_name: :docker, environments: [{name: "RAILS_ENV", value: "development"}]) # use docker config

# runs ls . command in ECS container
Wrapbox.run_cmd(["ls ."], environments: [{name: "RAILS_ENV", value: "development"}])
```

## Config

### Common

| name   | desc              |
| ------ | ----------------- |
| runner | "ecs" or "docker" |

### for ECS

| name                    | desc                                                                                                       |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------                                                           |
| cluster                 | target ECS cluster name                                                                                    |
| region                  | region of ECS cluster                                                                                      |
| container_definitions   | see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#register_task_definition-instance_method |
| task_role_arn           | see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/task-iam-roles.html                         |
| volumes                 | see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#register_task_definition-instance_method |
| placement_constraints   | see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#register_task_definition-instance_method |
| placement_strategy      | see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#register_task_definition-instance_method |
| launch_type             | see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#run_task-instance_method                 |
| network_mode            | see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#register_task_definition-instance_method |
| network_configuration   | see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#run_task-instance_method                 |
| cpu                     | see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#register_task_definition-instance_method |
| memory                  | see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#register_task_definition-instance_method |
| enable_ecs_managed_tags | see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#run_task-instance_method                |
| tags                    | tags of task definitions. see also https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#register_task_definition-instance_method |
| propagate_tags          | specify `"TASK_DEFINITION"` if you want to propagate tags to tasks. see also https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#run_task-instance_method |

`WRAPBOX_CMD_INDEX` environment variable is available in `run_cmd` and you can distinguish logs from each command like below:

```
log_configuration:
  log_driver: syslog
  options:
    syslog-address: "tcp://192.168.0.42:123"
    env: WRAPBOX_CMD_INDEX
    tag: wrapbox-{{ printf "%03s" (.ExtraAttributes nil).WRAPBOX_CMD_INDEX }}
```

### for docker
| name                  | desc                                                        |
| --------------------  | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| container_definitions | only use `image`, `cpu`, `memory`, and `memory_reservation` |
| keep_container        | If true, doesn't delete the container when the command ends |
| use_sudo              | If true, invoke `sudo docker` command                       |

## API

#### `run(class_name, method_name, args, container_definition_overrides: {}, environments: [], task_role_arn: nil, cluster: nil, timeout: 3600 * 24, launch_timeout: 60 * 10, launch_retry: 10, retry_interval: 1, retry_interval_multiplier: 2, max_retry_interval: 120, execution_retry: 0)`

#### `run_cmd(*cmd, container_definition_overrides: {}, environments: [], task_role_arn: nil, cluster: nil, timeout: 3600 * 24, launch_timeout: 60 * 10, launch_retry: 10, retry_interval: 1, retry_interval_multiplier: 2, max_retry_interval: 120, execution_retry: 0)`

following options is only for ECS.

- task_role_arn
- cluster
- timeout
- launch_timeout
- launch_retry

If Wrapbox cannot create task, it puts custom metric data to CloudWatch.
Custom metric data is `wrapbox/WaitingTaskCount` that has `ClusterName` dimension.
And, it retry launching until retry count reach `launch_retry`.

After task exited, Wrapbox checks main container exit code.
If exit code is not 0, Wrapbox raise error.

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/reproio/wrapbox.

Commit message:

Add a feature to launch a new instance per task like Fargate
It takes much time to launch Fargate tasks and the performance
of Fargate is low, so this feature can be used as an alternative
to Fargate.

README.md, after:

# Wrapbox

Wrapbox runs Ruby method or shell command in a container (ECS, docker).

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'wrapbox'
```

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install wrapbox

## Usage

Write config.yml

```yaml
default:
  cluster: wrapbox
  runner: ecs
  region: ap-northeast-1
  container_definitions:
    - image: joker1007/wrapbox
      cpu: 512
      memory: 1024
      essential: true

docker:
  runner: docker
  keep_container: true
  container_definitions:
    - image: joker1007/wrapbox
      cpu: 512
      memory: 1024

ecs2:
  cluster: wrapbox
  runner: ecs
  region: ap-northeast-1
  # Use already existing task definition
  task_definition:
    task_definition_name: foo_task:1
    main_container_name: container_name_where_command_is_executed
```

#### run by CLI

```sh
$ wrapbox ecs run_cmd -f config.yml \
  -e "FOO=bar,HOGE=fuga" \
  "bundle exec rspec spec/models" \
  "bundle exec rspec spec/controllers" \
```

#### run by ruby

Run `rake wrapbox:run` with `CLASS_NAME_ENV` and `METHOD_NAME_ENV` and `METHOD_ARGS_ENV`

```ruby
Wrapbox.configure do |c|
  c.load_yaml(File.expand_path("../config.yml", __FILE__))
end

# runs TestJob#perform("arg1", ["arg2", "arg3"]) in ECS container via `rake wrapbox:run`
Wrapbox.run("TestJob", :perform, ["arg1", ["arg2", "arg3"]], environments: [{name: "RAILS_ENV", value: "development"}]) # use default config
# runs TestJob#perform in local docker container (Use docker cli)
Wrapbox.run("TestJob", :perform, ["arg1", ["arg2", "arg3"]], config_name: :docker, environments: [{name: "RAILS_ENV", value: "development"}]) # use docker config

# runs ls . command in ECS container
Wrapbox.run_cmd(["ls ."], environments: [{name: "RAILS_ENV", value: "development"}])
```

## Config

### Common

| name   | desc              |
| ------ | ----------------- |
| runner | "ecs" or "docker" |

### for ECS

| name                    | desc                                                                                                       |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------                                                           |
| cluster                 | target ECS cluster name                                                                                    |
| region                  | region of ECS cluster                                                                                      |
| container_definitions   | see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#register_task_definition-instance_method |
| task_role_arn           | see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/task-iam-roles.html                         |
| volumes                 | see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#register_task_definition-instance_method |
| placement_constraints   | see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#register_task_definition-instance_method |
| placement_strategy      | see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#register_task_definition-instance_method |
| launch_type             | see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#run_task-instance_method                 |
| network_mode            | see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#register_task_definition-instance_method |
| network_configuration   | see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#run_task-instance_method                 |
| cpu                     | see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#register_task_definition-instance_method |
| memory                  | see http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#register_task_definition-instance_method |
| enable_ecs_managed_tags | see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#run_task-instance_method                |
| tags                    | tags of task definitions. see also https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#register_task_definition-instance_method |
| propagate_tags          | specify `"TASK_DEFINITION"` if you want to propagate tags to tasks. see also https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/ECS/Client.html#run_task-instance_method |
| launch_instances        | specify `launch_template` and `instance_type` for [Aws::EC2::Client#run_instances](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby/api/Aws/EC2/Client.html#run_instances-instance_method). You can also specify `wait_until_instance_terminated` (default: true) |

`WRAPBOX_CMD_INDEX` environment variable is available in `run_cmd` and you can distinguish logs from each command like below:

```
log_configuration:
  log_driver: syslog
  options:
    syslog-address: "tcp://192.168.0.42:123"
    env: WRAPBOX_CMD_INDEX
    tag: wrapbox-{{ printf "%03s" (.ExtraAttributes nil).WRAPBOX_CMD_INDEX }}
```

### for docker
| name                  | desc                                                        |
| --------------------  | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| container_definitions | only use `image`, `cpu`, `memory`, and `memory_reservation` |
| keep_container        | If true, doesn't delete the container when the command ends |
| use_sudo              | If true, invoke `sudo docker` command                       |

## API

#### `run(class_name, method_name, args, container_definition_overrides: {}, environments: [], task_role_arn: nil, cluster: nil, timeout: 3600 * 24, launch_timeout: 60 * 10, launch_retry: 10, retry_interval: 1, retry_interval_multiplier: 2, max_retry_interval: 120, execution_retry: 0)`

#### `run_cmd(*cmd, container_definition_overrides: {}, environments: [], task_role_arn: nil, cluster: nil, timeout: 3600 * 24, launch_timeout: 60 * 10, launch_retry: 10, retry_interval: 1, retry_interval_multiplier: 2, max_retry_interval: 120, execution_retry: 0)`

following options is only for ECS.

- task_role_arn
- cluster
- timeout
- launch_timeout
- launch_retry

If Wrapbox cannot create task, it puts custom metric data to CloudWatch.
Custom metric data is `wrapbox/WaitingTaskCount` that has `ClusterName` dimension.
And, it retry launching until retry count reach `launch_retry`.

After task exited, Wrapbox checks main container exit code.
If exit code is not 0, Wrapbox raise error.

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/reproio/wrapbox.
